<ui:composition xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
                xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
                xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
                xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
                xmlns:p="http://primefaces.org/ui"
                template="/WEB-INF/template.xhtml">

    <ui:define name="content">
        <div class="content-section introduction">
            <div class="feature-intro">
                <h1>Text</h1>
                <p>Manage the alignment and the styling of a text with <a href="https://github.com/primefaces/primeflex">PrimeFlex</a> text utilities.</p>
            </div>
        </div>

        <div class="content-section implementation">
            <div class="card">
                <h5>Alignment</h5>
                <div class="p-mb-3 p-text-left">Left</div>
                <div class="p-mb-3 p-text-center">Center</div>
                <div class="p-text-right">Right</div>

                <h5>Wrap</h5>
                <div class="p-mb-3 demo-container" style="width: 10rem">Long text wraps and does not overlow.</div>
                <div class="p-mb-3 demo-container p-text-nowrap" style="width: 10rem">Long text does not wrap and overflows the parent.</div>
                <div class="p-mb-3 demo-container p-text-nowrap p-text-truncate" style="width: 10rem">Long text does not wrap and overflows the parent.</div>

                <h5>Transform</h5>
                <div class="p-mb-3 p-text-lowercase">LOWERCASE</div>
                <div class="p-mb-3 p-text-uppercase">uppercase</div>
                <div class="p-text-capitalize">capitalize</div>

                <h5>Style</h5>
                <div class="p-mb-3 p-text-bold">Bold</div>
                <div class="p-mb-3 p-text-normal">Normal</div>
                <div class="p-mb-3 p-text-light">Light</div>
                <div class="p-mb-3 p-text-italic">Italic</div>
            </div>
        </div>

        <div class="content-section documentation">
            <p:tabView>
                <p:tab title="Documentation">
                    <h5>Getting Started</h5>
                    <p>The text classes use the <i>p-text-{value}</i> syntax.</p>

                    <h5>Alignment</h5>
                    <p>Four options are available for alignment.</p>
                    <ul>
                        <li>left</li>
                        <li>center</li>
                        <li>right</li>
                        <li>justify</li>
                    </ul>

<pre class="language-xml"><code>
&lt;div class="p-text-left"&gt;Left&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-text-center"&gt;Center&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-text-right"&gt;Right&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-text-justify"&gt;Justify&lt;/div&gt;

</code></pre>

                    <h5>Wrap</h5>
                    <p>Text wrapping defines how the text would be displayed when it exceeds the size of its container.</p>
                    <ul>
                        <li>nowrap</li>
                        <li>wrap</li>
                        <li>truncate</li>
                    </ul>

<pre class="language-xml"><code>
&lt;div style="width: 10rem"&gt;Long text wraps and does not overlow.&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-text-nowrap" style="width: 10rem"&gt;Long text does not wrap and overflows the parent.&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-text-nowrap p-text-truncate" style="width: 10rem"&gt;Long text does not wrap and overflows the parent.&lt;/div&gt;

</code></pre>

                    <h5>Transform</h5>
                    <p>Transform property changes the case of the text.</p>
                    <ul>
                        <li>lowercase</li>
                        <li>uppercase</li>
                        <li>capitalize</li>
                    </ul>

<pre class="language-xml"><code>
&lt;div class="p-text-lowercase"&gt;LOWERCASE&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-text-uppercase"&gt;uppercase&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-text-capitalize"&gt;capitalize&lt;/div&gt;

</code></pre>

                    <h5>Style</h5>
                    <p>Text styling applies to font weight and style.</p>
                    <ul>
                        <li>bold</li>
                        <li>normal</li>
                        <li>light</li>
                        <li>italic</li>
                    </ul>

<pre class="language-xml"><code>
&lt;div class="p-text-bold"&gt;Bold&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-text-normal"&gt;Normal&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-text-light"&gt;Light&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-text-italic"&gt;Italic&lt;/div&gt;

</code></pre>
                </p:tab>

                <p:tab title="Source">
<pre class="language-xml"><code>
&lt;h5&gt;Alignment&lt;/h5&gt;
&lt;div class="p-mb-3 p-text-left"&gt;Left&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-mb-3 p-text-center"&gt;Center&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-text-right"&gt;Right&lt;/div&gt;

&lt;h5&gt;Wrap&lt;/h5&gt;
&lt;div class="p-mb-3 demo-container" style="width: 10rem"&gt;Long text wraps and does not overlow.&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-mb-3 demo-container p-text-nowrap" style="width: 10rem"&gt;Long text does not wrap and overflows the parent.&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-mb-3 demo-container p-text-nowrap p-text-truncate" style="width: 10rem"&gt;Long text does not wrap and overflows the parent.&lt;/div&gt;

&lt;h5&gt;Transform&lt;/h5&gt;
&lt;div class="p-mb-3 p-text-lowercase"&gt;LOWERCASE&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-mb-3 p-text-uppercase"&gt;uppercase&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-text-capitalize"&gt;capitalize&lt;/div&gt;

&lt;h5&gt;Style&lt;/h5&gt;
&lt;div class="p-mb-3 p-text-bold"&gt;Bold&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-mb-3 p-text-normal"&gt;Normal&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-mb-3 p-text-light"&gt;Light&lt;/div&gt;
&lt;div class="p-mb-3 p-text-italic"&gt;Italic&lt;/div&gt;

</code></pre>                  
                </p:tab>
            </p:tabView>
        </div>
        
    </ui:define>

</ui:composition>