# Migration guide 8.0 -> 9.0

## Breaking Changes

* Facelet function `p:resolveWidgetVar` now returns the widget var name only, instead of `PF('widgetVarName')`.

### Dock
  * Re-implemented using CSS. Deprecated props `itemWidth, maxWidth, proximity` for CSS instead. (https://primefaces.github.io/primefaces/9_0/#/components/dock)

### Diagram
  * `paintStyle` has changed from `setPaintStyle("{strokeStyle:'#98AFC7',fillStyle:'#5C738B',lineWidth:3}")` to `setPaintStyle("{stroke:'#98AFC7',fill:'#5C738B',strokeWidth:3}")`

### Dashboard
  * `disabled` attribute has been renamed into `reordering` for reordering panels
  * `disabled` attribute is now like all other disabled attributes to disable the component

### FileUpload
  * `FileUpload#performVirusScan` attribute has been renamed into `virusScan`
  * `VirusScanner#performVirusScan(InputStream in)` has been refactored into `VirusScanner#scan(UploadedFile file)`

### ChartJS
  * `offset` for Bar charts is no longer `true` by default see: (https://github.com/primefaces/primefaces/issues/5726)

### Themes
  * **Removed** `aristo` theme and made `nova-light` the default theme

### Layout
  * **Removed** `Layout` component in favor or pure CSS. PF Extensions still has a similar Layout component

### Editor
  * **Removed** `Editor` component in favor `TextEditor`.

### InputMask
  * Optional section of mask no longer starts with `?` but must be wrapped in `[` and `]`.

### Schedule
  * The JavaScript library (FullCalendar) was updated to version 5. It uses a different DOM structure with potentially new or changed CSS style classes. Check if your custom CSS for the schedule still applies if you have any.
  * If you are using a custom `extender` function, check your JavaScript code: Many FullCalendar settings have been renamed or changed - see the FullCalendar upgrade guide at https://fullcalendar.io/docs/upgrading-from-v4
  * New Locale customization labels for `year, list, moreLinkText, noEventsText`

### Client-Side-Validation
  * `PrimeFaces.util.ValidationContext` now is `PrimeFaces.validation.ValidationContext`
  * `PrimeFaces.validation.ValidationContext` is now a a real "context object" and most util methods has been moved to `PrimeFaces.validation.Utils`

### AutoComplete
  * Event `moreText` is renamed to `moreTextSelect`.
### DataTable
  * TODO: sorting reworked - see https://github.com/primefaces/primefaces/pull/6390

## Others

* DataTable, DataView, DataList and DataGrid detect lazy-attribute automatically based on value-binding to LazyDataModel. So no need to set this explicit anymore.
* DatePicker: showTime is detected automatically based on value-binding to LocalDateTime. timeOnly is detected automatically based on value-binding to LocalTime. In this usecases you don´t need to set this attributes explicit when you are happy with this default-behaviour.

### Cache
  * HazelCast now requires version 4.X see: (https://github.com/primefaces/primefaces/issues/5989)
### Exporter
  * PDF lib has been switched from iText to Libre OpenPDF: (https://github.com/primefaces/primefaces/issues/5749)
### Schedule
  * The schedule component has two properties `resizable` and `draggable` that were supposed to be used as the default for all events. Before  9.0, however, these two properties did not have any effect, as they were always overwritten by the `ScheduleEvent#isEditable` property. To remedy this, the `ScheduleEvent` interface now contains two new methods `ScheduleEvent#isResizable` and `ScheduleEvent#isDraggable` that should be used instead of the deprecated `ScheduleEvent#isEditable`. _Please note that these two methods may return null_, to indicate that they do not overwrite the default setting of the schedule. Likewise, the builder has `DefaultScheduleEvent.Builder#resizable` and `DefaultScheduleEvent.Builder#draggable`.
  * The event properties `resizable` and `draggable` default to `null`, and the schedule properties defaults to `true`. This means that, like previously, events are editable by default.

## New Features

### FileUpload
  * supports chunking and resume (see https://primefaces.github.io/primefaces/9_0/#/components/fileupload?id=chunking-and-resume)

### FileDownload
  * supports ajax (so `ajax="false"` is not required anymore) (see https://primefaces.github.io/primefaces/9_0/#/components/filedownload?id=ajax-downloading)

### MultiViewState
  * supports client window mode (see https://primefaces.github.io/primefaces/9_0/#/core/multiviewstate)

### Prime Client Window
  * improved implementation of JSF Client Window mode (see https://primefaces.github.io/primefaces/9_0/#/core/clientwindow)

### DatePicker
  * added (lazy) metamodel to set disabled and style class (see https://primefaces.github.io/primefaces/9_0/#/components/datepicker?id=date-metadata-model)
