<ui:composition xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html" xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
    xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets" xmlns:p="http://primefaces.org/ui" template="/WEB-INF/template.xhtml">

    <ui:define name="head">
        <style type="text/css">
            .pro-section {
                display: flex;
                margin-top: .75rem;
            }

            .pro-section-text {
                flex: 1 1 auto;
                padding: 0rem 1rem 0 0;

                
            }

            .action-button {
                display: inline-block;
                margin-top: 1rem;
            }

            .pro-section-image {
                text-align: center;
                padding: 1rem;
            }

            li {
                line-height: 2 !important;
            }
        </style>
    </ui:define>

    <ui:define name="title">
        Support
    </ui:define>

    <ui:define name="content">
        <div class="content-section introduction">
            <div class="feature-intro">
                <h1>Support</h1>
                <p>Professional support for the open source innovation</p>
            </div>
        </div>

        <div class="content-section documentation">
            <h5>Community Support</h5>
            <p><a href="https://forum.primefaces.org/viewforum.php?f=110">Forum</a> is where the community users gather to seek support, post topics and discuss the technology. PrimeTek does not
            guarantee response at forum although it is monitored and maintained by our staff. If you need to secure our response within 1 business day, you may consider PrimeFaces PRO support.</p>

            <h5>PrimeFaces Elite</h5>
            <p>PrimeFaces has two different release lines, major releases such as 6.2, 7.0, 8.0 and 10.0 are considered to be community releases and they are available to public for free under MIT License. ELITE releases are versioned like 6.2.13,
                7.0.9, 8.0.5, 10.0.1, they provide maintenance along with new features and they are only available to ELITE and PRO users.</p>

            <p>ELITE subscribers also have access to basic license of Premium Omega Application Template Elite at no extra cost. Extended license requires a separate purchase whereas PRO users have been granted an extended license.</p>

            <h6>PrimeFaces Elite FAQ</h6>
            <ol>
                <li><b>How much does ELITE cost and for how long?</b> ELITE subscription is per developer and cost is $99 for one year.</li>
                <li><b>What does per developer mean? Is it a named license or concurrent?</b> ELITE license is concurrent or floating in other words. Read more about floating license at here. In summary, ELITE license is a development license that is granted for a developer. It has no runtime bindings like nodes, CPUs or servers.</li>
                <li><b>How do I become an ELITE user?</b> Steps to upgrade to Elite are as follows;
                    <ol>
                        <li>Create an account at http://forum.primefaces.org if you haven’t already done so.</li>
                        <li>Visit http://www.primefaces.org/store and login with your credentials.</li>
                        <li>Click “PrimeFaces Elite” tab and enter the number of licenses. Then click the subscribe button.</li>
                        <li>Next screen is PayU where you can complete the purchase.</li>
                        <li>Once the payment is completed, relogin the http://www.primefaces.org/store and access the service offerings.</li>
                    </ol>
                </li>
                <li><b>We have 3 developers in your team using PrimeFaces. How many licenses we should get?</b> You’d need 3 licenses, you can use checkout screen during payment process to change the number of licenses.</li>
                <li><b>Can we pay with a bank transfer, without a credit card?</b> Yes, please contact us if you’d like to proceed this way.</li>
                <li><b>What is the license of ELITE Releases? Is it different than MIT License?</b> ELITE versions are licensed under PrimeFaces Commercial License.</li>
                <li><b>If I’m not purchasing ELITE but via a reseller or purchasing department, can you transfer the account to me? </b>Yes, please contact us with the details in this case.</li>
                <li><b>Does ELITE enable us to contact PrimeFaces Team to receive support?</b> No, that is provided by PRO support.</li>
                <li><b>Once my subscription ends, can I still continue using the Elite libraries?</b> No, it is required to extend your subscription to continue using any Elite version during active development.</li>
            </ol>

            <h5>PrimeFaces PRO Support</h5>
            <div class="pro-section p-grid p-nogutter">
                <div class="pro-section-text p-col-12 p-md-6">
                     <p>PrimeFaces PRO is a term based commercial support service. With the exclusive services of Pro account,
                            you no longer need to post your questions in the community forum and your issues to community issue tracker.
                    With PrimeFaces PRO, it's easy to support, tune and add features to PrimeFaces as if it were an in-house framework.</p>
                     <a class="action-button" href="mailto:contact@primetek.com.tr">GET A QUOTE</a>
                </div>

                <div class="pro-section-image p-col-12 p-md-6">
                    <p:graphicImage name="images/pro.png" library="showcase" />
                </div>
            </div>

            <h5>Standard PRO Services</h5>
            <ul>
                <li>Access to pro.primefaces.org</li>
                <li>Response within 1 business day.</li>
                <li>Defect patches.</li>
                <li>Private branch management in case you need.</li>
                <li>Customized builds.</li>
                <li>Unlimited number of cases.</li>
                <li>Remote desktop connection.</li>
                <li>Conference calls for discussions.</li>
                <li>High priority to your issues.</li>
                <li>Notifications about security updates.</li>
            </ul>

            <h5>New Features (Optional)</h5>

            <p>New feature and enhancement requests are not available in core services and provided via an hour based model instead.  When you have a feature request we provide an estimate, if you confirm we deliver your request within an estimated timeframe and deduct the amount of work from your hours. These requests can be;</p>

            <ul>
                <li>New components.</li>
                <li>New functionality to existing components.</li>
                <li>Changing the way a certain functionality is implemented.</li>
                <li>Accessibility improvements.</li>
                <li>Proof of Concept implementations of a use case.</li>
                <li>Code reviews to offer best practices.</li>
            </ul>

            <p>You can purchase additional hours along with the subscription and also anytime during your subscription period. If your subscription term ends with unused hours, they will be added to your new subscription term in case you extend.</p>
        </div>
    </ui:define>
    
</ui:composition>
