# Migration guide 12.0.0 -> 13.0.0

> :warning: **JSF 2.0 and 2.1 support is deprecated in 13.0.0 and will be removed in 14.0.0!**

## Core
  * Internet Explorer support has been completely removed
  * Font Open Sans `/font/open-sans-v13-latin` has been removed
  * DefaultStreamedContent now allows for `long` instead of `int` sized streams

## Deleted
  * `Chart` in favor of `Charts`
  * `Lightbox` in favor of `Galleria`
  * `Ring` in favor of `Carousel`
  * `ContentFlow` in favor of `Carousel`
  * `p:repeat` in favor of `ui:repeat` (both Mojarra and MyFaces support what this used to do)
  * `UIColumn#filterOptions` removed _(in favor of facet filter)_

## Deprecated
  * `WidgetBuilder.init(String widgetClass, String widgetVar, String id)` deprecated use `WidgetBuilder.init(String widgetClass, T widget)`
  * `Watermark` in favor passthrough attribute `pt:placeholder` or vanilla JS
  * `SelectOneRadio` tabular layout in favor of responsive layout
  * `SelectManyCheckbox` tabular layout in favor of responsive layout
  * `DataGrid` tabular layout in favor of responsive layout `layout="grid"` now the default
  * `PanelGrid` tabular layout in favor of responsive layout `layout="grid"` now the default. To fall back to legacy behavior set `layout="tabular" columns="0"`
  * `DashboardColumn` interface is now `DashboardWidget`

## Chips
  * `separator` attribute is now `null` by default.

## Color Picker
  * Library changed from legacy jQuery ColorPicker to Coloris. A lightweight and elegant JavaScript color picker written in vanilla ES6.
  * Value used to be hex only without the `#` like `ffffff` but now if using hex it includes the `#fffffff` because the new picker supports Hex, RGB, HSL color values.

## Dashboard
  * Adding `responsive` mode has caused some re-factoring of the model specifically `DashboardColumn` to `DashboardWidget`.
  * Dashboard models have been moved from `org.primefaces.model` to `org.primefaces.model.dashboard`.
  * `DashboardColumn` interface is now `DashboardWidget`

## Menu
  * `p:menu` always ignored the `expanded` attribute of `p:submenu` in the past. As the default is `expanded=false`, you need to set it to `true`.

## SelectCheckboxMenu
  * `scrollHeight` type is now `String` instead of `Integer` (to also support the use of `vh` and `%` CSS units).

## SelectOneMenu
  * `autoWidth` type is now `String` instead of `Boolean`. The new default `auto` automatically checks for a parent `ui-fluid` and skips calculating the width. So if you use `ui-fluid` and `autoWidth="false"`, you can just remove `autoWidth`.

## Confirm
  * `icon` removed default icon

## TextEditor
  * `height` is now a String. So please change `height=200` to `height=200px`
